---
name: Vlad Perju
role: Professor of Law at Boston College Law School
keynote: false
show: true
---

Vlad Perju is a Professor of Law at Boston College Law School. He has published widely in the areas of constitutional theory, comparative constitutional law, European Union law, comparative law and jurisprudence. Some of his recent work on EU constitutionalism includes _The Politics of Form in European Constitutionalism_ (European Constitutional Law Review), _Against Bidimensional Supremacy in EU Constitutionalism_ (German Law Journal), _Cosmopolitanism and Constitutional Self-Government_ (International Journal of Constitutional Law), _Dual Sovereignty in the European Union? A Critique of Habermas’s Defense of the Nation-State_ (Texas International Law Journal), _Reason and Authority in the European Court of Justice_ (Virginia Journal of International Law), and _Uses and Misuses of Human Rights in European Constitutionalism._
For a decade, until 2022, Perju served as Director of the Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy. During that time, the Center became one of the leading institutions for the study of constitutional democracy in world. The President of Romania appointed Professor Perju to serve on a Commission on Constitution Reform. Perju was a visiting professor at Harvard Law School, taught as an External Professor at the European Academy of Legal Theory (Brussels, Belgium), was invited to join LUISS (Rome) as visiting professor and has had multiple affiliations with the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies at Harvard. He serves on the editorial board of _European Law Open_ (Cambridge University Press) and on the board of advisors of the journal _Jus Cogens_ and of the _I-Connect – Clough Center Global Review of Constitutional Law_.
Perju has law degrees from the University of Bucharest and University of Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne, an L.L.M. degree _summa cum laude_ from the European Academy of Legal Theory, an LLM degree from Harvard Law School (degree waived) and a doctorate (S.J.D.) from Harvard Law School. At Harvard, he was awarded a Byse Fellowship, a Safra Fellowship in Ethics at the Kennedy School of Government and served as a fellow in Amartya Sen’s Project on Justice, Welfare and Economics.