---
name: Krisztian Katona
role: Vice President of Global Competition and Regulatory Policy at the Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA)
keynote: false
show: true
---

Krisztian Katona is Vice President of Global Competition and Regulatory Policy at the Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA) in Washington, DC, where he represents CCIA and advises the industry on domestic and international antitrust and competition, technology, and regulatory issues. Previously, Krisztian served at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) as Counsel for International Antitrust responsible for multilateral antitrust affairs and international enforcement and policy cooperation. In 2019, he served as a senior FTC advisor at CADE, the Brazilian antitrust authority. In addition, he served as an attorney in the FTC’s Technology Enforcement Division, investigating and litigating potential violations of the antitrust laws in technology markets. During his 15-year government career, he also received the FTC Award for Distinguished Service. Prior to the FTC, he worked on antitrust and competition matters in the Washington, DC office of Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges LLP, focusing on international mergers and investigations of alleged anticompetitive conduct and civil litigation.

Krisztian serves on the governing Council of the American Bar Association's (ABA) Antitrust Law Section, having previously served as co-chair of Committee Operations and the Section's International Committee. In 2016 and 2020, Global Competition Review named him one of the top 40 competition lawyers under the age of 40 worldwide. He holds law degrees from the University of Virginia School of Law, the University of Konstanz (Germany), Paris II Panthéon-Assas University (France), and ELTE University (Hungary), and he is currently pursuing an S.J.D. at the George Washington University Law School under the supervision of former FTC Chair William Kovacic. Krisztian is admitted to the bars of the State of New York and the U.S. Supreme Court, and is a non-practicing Solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales.