---
name: Anselm Dannecker
role: Senior Fellow, Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Collaboratory, Harvard Kennedy School
keynote: false
show: true
---

Anselm Dannecker is a Senior Fellow at the Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Collaboratory at the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard Kennedy School and a Part Time Lecturer at Northeastern Universities’ College of Professional Studies. Dannecker focusses on complex multistakeholder negotiations and conflict in international climate change, finance as well as environmental and legislative negotiations. As a Coach for the Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Collaboratory, Dannecker has worked with individuals in targeted one-on-one settings on understanding default behavioral patterns in negotiation settings and improving individual negotiation performance. Dannecker has trained and consulted clients from various sectors, including European and US legislators and international climate negotiators. Dannecker’s prior career has spanned entrepreneurship and public service. He has co-founded a payments venture, has served as an Economist and as an Adviser to the CEO at IFC, has advanced international financial policy working at the German central bank and has designed policy as an economic adviser for the Green Group in the German Parliament. Dannecker holds a Master’s in Public Administration (MPA) from Harvard Kennedy School, where he had been studying as a McCloy Fellow. He holds a Master’s in Science (MSc, International Political Economy) from the London School of Economics and a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Philosophy &amp; Economics from Bayreuth University.