---
name: Jenny Prevedourou
role: Professor of Public Law at the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki
keynote: false
show: true
---

Eugenia (Jenny) Prevedourou is a Professor of Public Law at the Law Faculty of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (Greece), as well as a member of the National Commission for Human Rights and of the National Commission for Bioethics and Techno-ethics, two independent advisory bodies of the State. She graduated from the Law School of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (Greece) (1986) and was awarded a PhD with distinction by the University PARIS II-Panthéon Assas (France) (1994*)*. She pursued her post-doctoral studies at the Technische Universität Dresden (Germany). From 1992 until 2001, she worked as a civil servant at the Court of Justice of the European Union.
	Since October 2001, she teaches at the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. She has also taught for short periods at the French Universities PARIS I (Panthéon-Sorbonne), PARIS II (Panthéon-Assas) and Montpellier I (visiting professor). She is a Research Fellow at the Institut für deutsches und europäisches Verwaltungsrecht (Juristische Fakultät Heidelberg, Germany). Since July 2008, she is a member of the Appeals Board of the European University Institute of Florence. Jenny Prevedourou is also an attorney-at-law (Athens Bar Association) and has been appointed by the Government in several legislative drafting committees.
	Her research interests encompass all fields of Public Law, Comparative Administrative and Administrative Procedure Law and European Law. She has authored various legal books and a significant number of articles, contributions to collective works and case-law comments in Greek, French and German [most recent selected publications include: Privatisierung der Betreiber öffentlicher Dienstleistungen, in J.-H. Binder/G. Psaroudakis (Hg.), Europäisches Wirtschaftsrecht in der Krise, Mohr Siebeck, 2018, p. 87; Le contrôle juridictionnel des actes de Soft Law: évolutions nationales, perspectives européennes, in Mélanges en l’honneur de Vassilios Skouris, Mare § Martin, 2022, p. 521; The exercise of administrative duties by private actors (in Greek), in Sustainable State: Essays in honor of Her Excellency President of the Hellenic Republic Katerina Sakellaropoulou, Sakkoulas, 2022, p. 97].