---
name: Lenna Koszarny
role: Founding Partner and CEO, Horizon Capital
keynote: false
show: true
---

Lenna Koszarny is Founding Partner and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Capital, the leading private equity firm in Ukraine with over $1.2 billion in assets under management, backed by over 40 institutional investors with a capital base exceeding $570 billion. Under her leadership, in February 2022, Horizon Capital was honored as 2021 Firm of the Year for Central and Eastern Europe by Private Equity International, with 90,000 votes cast. Ms. Koszarny is also Executive Vice-President of Western NIS Enterprise Fund, a $150 million US-government backed fund; Chair of the Board of Directors of the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine representing 600 members with over $50 billion invested in Ukraine; and a Board Member and Vice President of the Ukrainian World Congress, representing over 20 million Ukrainians worldwide. She is also a member of the Board of the Ukrainian Startup Fund launched by the Government of Ukraine; an Honorary Board member of the Ukrainian Corporate Governance Academy; a Supervisory Board member of the German-Polish-Ukrainian Society in Ukraine; and, served as the first Vice-Chair of the Advisory Council of Kyiv-Mohyla Business School.
On August 24, 2020, the 29th anniversary of Ukraine’s independence, Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky awarded Ms. Koszarny with an Order of Merit for Service to Ukraine, third level, for her significant contribution to the country’s economy and investment climate. She is also a recipient of a Presidential Commemorative Medal on the occasion of the 25th Anniversary of Independence.
Under Ms. Koszarny’s leadership, Horizon Capital is committed to promoting gender equality in the alternative assets industry, inspiring greater investment sector engagement by women throughout their region. In July 2022, Ms. Koszarny was recognized in Private Equity International’s 2022 Women of Influence in Private Markets list, one of only 10 women selected in the private equity category. In July 2020, she was named as #2 Emerging Europe’s Female Business Leader 2020 by UK-headquartered online publication <http://Emerging-Europe.com|Emerging-Europe.com>, whose independent insight is relied upon by more than two million people. She is a Member of the Private Equity Women Investor Network (PEWIN), bringing together 600+ senior women leaders in private equity with over $3 trillion AUM, and was named Empowerment Ambassador of the SheExports Platform launched by Ukraine’s Export Promotion Office. She is also a Member of the all-female Organizing Committee of Ukraine House Davos, promoting Ukraine for the fifth year alongside the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
Ms. Koszarny is a CPA and a 1991 HBA graduate of the Ivey Business School in Canada. She is Canadian of Ukrainian descent and has lived and worked in Ukraine for over 29 years.