---
name: Muriel Lacoue-Labarthe
role: Deputy Director General of the French Treasury
keynote: false
show: true
---

Muriel Lacoue-Labarthe joined the French Ministry of Economy and Finance in 2001, as Deputy head of the merger control unit for the Directorate general for competition, consumers affairs and fraud control (DGCCRF). From April 2003 to May 2004, she joined the French Treasury as Financial attaché for the New York office. In June 2004, she was appointed head of unit for merger control at the DGCCRF. In October 2005, she became seconded national expert at the Antitrust policy and coordination unit of the DG Competition for the European Commission in Brussels. In November 2007, Muriel Lacoue-Labarthe came back to Paris as Head of unit for internal market and competition policy at the Secretariat General for European Affairs *(SCAE).* In August 2010, she was appointed Head of unit for European coordination and strategy at the French Treasury. She was Advisor for European and international financial affairs for the French Finance minister Pierre Moscovici from May 2012 to March 2014, when she joined the French Treasury again. From September 2014 to March 2016, she was appointed Head of the European Affairs division at the French Treasury, while acting as Alternate member of the economic and financial committee and the Euro working group, as well as Member of the board of directors at the European Investment Bank and Alternate director at the European Stability Mechanism. In April 2016, she became seconded national expert, advisor to the Director of policy and strategy at the Directorate general for Economic and financial affairs of the European Commission in Brussels. In September 2017, she was appointed Head of division for Trade, investment and fight against financial crime at the French Treasury in Paris. Meanwhile, she was member of the EU Trade policy committee and Member of the G20 Trade and investment working group. In September 2020, she was appointed Head of department for Bilateral relations and international business at the French Treasury, as well as Board member of Business France.She has been Deputy Director General of the French Treasury since January 2021.

Muriel Lacoue-Labarthe graduated from ENA in 2001 and holds a degree from Sciences Po Paris.